===============================================================================
		    LICENSE FOR THE XMT LIBRARY
===============================================================================

			    PREAMBLE

The Xmt library and all its supporting programs and documentation are:

    Copyright (c) 1992, 1993, 1994 by Dovetail Systems.
    All Rights Reserved.

Xmt is not free software, and it is not in the public domain.  See the
file COPYRIGHT for more information on the copyright.

Xmt is provided "as is" with no warranty of any kind.  See the file
NO_WARRANTY for more information.

The Xmt library may only be used by under the terms of this license.
Purchase of the book Motif Tools, published by O'Reilly & Associates
gives you a license for one developer to use the Xmt library on one
CPU.  If Xmt is to be used by more than one developer or on more than
one CPU, then you must purchase additional licenses, as described in the
file SHAREWARE.

You'll find that this license gives you a lot of flexibility in the
ways you use Xmt.  It does not allow you, however, to sell Xmt or
modified versions of Xmt, or to distribute Xmt as part of toolkits of
your own.

This license below is a non-standard one, and is longer and more
detailed than many.  This is because we are trying to give the software
developer as much freedom as possible to use Xmt, and at the same time
protect some key commercial rights of our own.  Indented paragraphs are
the formal definitions, terms and conditions of this license.  Text that
is flush left is less formal commentary on those definitions, terms and
conditions.


			    DEFINITIONS

    A "licensed user" is anyone who has purchased a copy of the
    book "Motif Tools", or who has otherwised purchased a
    license to the Xmt library.

    A "library" means a collection of software functions and/or data
    prepared so as to be conveniently linked with application programs
    (which use some of those functions and data) to form executables.

    "Source code" for a work means the preferred form of the work for
    making modifications to it.

    "Object code" is a compiled, machine-readable form of a work, which has
    not been linked with libraries or other object code to form an
    executable.

    "Linking" is the process of combining modules of object code and
    libraries into a form that can be executed by a computer.

    An "executable" is software that has been linked.

    "Portions of the library" mean a subset of the software functions that
    comprise the library which have been extracted from the library and are
    distributed directly as part of an application, and not as part of a
    library or as a library themselves.


			    TERMS AND CONDITIONS

    1) Permission is granted to copy and distribute unmodified
    versions of the Xmt library for any non-commercial purpose.
    This distribution must be under terms identical to those set
    forth here.

Paragraph 1 of the license covers only distribution of the unmodified
library: anyone may give an unmodified copy of this library to anyone
who wants it, and anyone may also make the unmodified library available
for anonymous ftp, for example.  You can't charge money to make copies
for people, and you can't distribute modified versions of the library.
"Unmodified" means that you have to include all files in the
distribution, including those that contain this license.  You don't have
to be a licensed user to distribute unmodified copies, but note that you
aren't allowed to actually use the library unless you are licensed.

    2) Permission is granted to licensed users to use and modify
    the Xmt library, on a single CPU, for any purpose.

Paragraph 2 explains that licensed users can use and modify Xmt however
they want.  Note, though, that distribution of programs linked with Xmt
or modified versions of Xmt is covered separately in the paragraphs
below.

    3) Permission is granted to licensed users to freely
    distribute executable programs that have been linked with
    the Xmt library or with modified versions of the library.

Paragraph 3 says that if licensed users link an application with this
library, they can distribute the executable freely; there's no run-time
royalty or any other charges.

    4) Permission is granted to licensed users to distribute
    modified or unmodified portions of the Xmt library, in
    source code or object code form, as part of an application
    which is itself distributed in source or object code form,
    provided that the files LICENSE, COPYRIGHT, SHAREWARE and
    NO_WARRANTY from the Xmt library are included with the
    application distribution, and provided that any code derived
    from Xmt is clearly labeled as such.  Documentation for the
    Xmt library, or for any portion of it, may not be
    distributed under the terms of this section.

Much useful software is distributed in source-code form.  Paragraph 4
allows you to distribute applications that use Xmt in source code form
without requiring all the users of the application to pay a license fee
for Xmt: if you write an application that uses only some of modules from
this library, or uses modified modules from the library, and you are
distributing the application in source code form, then you can include
the source code modules from Xmt or derived from Xmt with the
application.  You must include the files that explain this license if
you do so.  Note that you can only distribute portions of the library in
this way--not the whole library--and that those portions must be part of
an application--they may not form a library themselves.  You may not
distribute documentation for the portions of the library you distribute
under the terms of this section--since your users need only to compile
and run your application, there is no need for the Xmt programmer
documentation.  Distribution of the documentation might encourage
modification or reuse of the distributed portions of Xmt, which is
forbidden in Paragraph 5.

    5) Permission is granted to use, without fee, portions of
    the Xmt library distributed with an application within that
    application only.

Paragraph 4 allows application developers to distribute portions of the
Xmt library with their applications.  Paragraph 5 specifies the terms
under which those portions may be used by those who receive the
distribution: anyone who receives portions of the Xmt library as part of
an application may compile and run that application without becoming a
licensed user.  But no one may modify those portions, or reuse them in
another application without becoming a licensed user.

    6) Any permissions not explicitly granted above are reserved
    by Dovetail Systems.

Paragraph 6 says that the paragraphs above specify the only ways that
you are allowed to use, modify, and distribute the Xmt library.  In
particular, note that you are not permitted to distribute modified
versions of Xmt without the prior written permission of Dovetail
Systems; this is to prevent a proliferation of versions and avoid
confusion over which version is the "official" one.  Also, while you are
allowed to distribute portions of the library in or with your
applications, you are not allowed to distribute portions of the library
in your own libraries or toolkits, or in any way that would allow them
to be reused, unless you obtain prior written permission to do so.  For
example, if you write an interface builder application, you may use the
widgets from the Xmt library in your application's executable, but you
may not include the source or object code for those widgets in any form
that the users of your builder application can use in their
applications.  Instead, you must require your users to obtain a license
for the Xmt library in order to use the Xmt widgets.
