The Xmt library is "shareware".  You are welcome to try it out, read the
documentation, and experiment with it for evaluation purposes, but
before you use it for "real" programming, you must obtain a license for
it.

One way to obtain a license is to purchase the book _Motif Tools_ from
O'Reilly & Associates.  This book is the documentation for the library,
and the purchase of it entitles you to use Xmt on a single CPU.  For
many programmers, this single license will be sufficient.  But if you
want to use Xmt on more than one computer, or if other programmers in
your organization want to use Xmt, you'll have to obtain additional
licenses.  One way to do this is simply to purchase a sufficient number
of copies of this book.  In many cases, though, it is cheaper (and kills
fewer trees!) to purchase additional licenses as described here.

			How Many Licenses Do I Need?
----------------------------------------------------------------------
To figure out how many licenses you'll need, count the number of CPUs
that each developer will be working on.  For example, if you want to use
Xmt on a Sun workstation, a DEC workstation, and an HP workstation, and
have bought one copy of the book, then you'll need to buy two more
licenses.

Here's another, more complex example.  Suppose your company has two
programmers, Jill and Jack, and four computers, A, B, C and D.  Jill
will be using Xmt on computers A, B, and C, and Jack will be using Xmt
on computers C and D.  This means that you will need five licenses in
all.  If Jill and Jack will be sharing a copy of the book (to save
paper), then you'll need to purchase four additional licenses.

You can also purchase a site license, or a corporate-wide license for
Xmt.  A site license entitles any number of developers to use Xmt on any
number of computers at a single site.  A "site" is a single office or
working group within the same building.  Most small companies constitute
a single site.  If you need more than twelve licenses, then buying a
site license will be the most cost-effective option.

Larger companies or organizations (like universities) may need to
purchase multiple site licenses if they have developers located in more
than one building, or when they have largely separate groups working
independently within the same building.  If an organization has more
than five sites that will be using Xmt, then it will be cheapest to buy
a corporate-wide license.  A corporate-wide license entitles anyone
affiliated with a company or organization to use Xmt on any number of
computers anywhere within the company or organization.

The next section lists the prices for these different kinds of
licenses.

			How Much Do Licenses Cost?
---------------------------------------------------------------------
The table below lists the prices for single-user/single-CPU licenses,
for site licenses, and for corporate-wide licenses for Xmt.  All prices
are in U.S. dollars.  (These prices are current at the time of
publication, but are subject to change without notice.)  Note that there
are discounted prices for universities or other educational
institutions, or for anyone affiliated with an educational institution.


	License			Price	Educational Price
	---------------------------------------------------
	Single-user/Single-CPU	  $40	      $25
	Site license		 $500	     $250
	Corporate-wide license	$2500	    $1000



			How Do I Pay for Licenses?
----------------------------------------------------------------------
You can purchase additional Xmt licenses the same way that you'd order
books from O'Reilly & Associates.  In the U.S.  or Canada, call
1-800-998-9938 between 7am and 5pm PST.  Outside of the U.S., call
+1-707-829-0515.



			Why Shareware?
----------------------------------------------------------------------
You'll notice that there are no license keys required for you to use the
Xmt library.  It is distributed as unprotected source code, and there is
nothing to prevent you from compiling and using it on as many platforms
as you like.  The Xmt library is shareware--the only thing that will
make you pay for it is your own conscience.  This is not to say that
paying is optional--using Xmt without purchasing the proper licenses is
software piracy and is illegal--just that we can't very effectively
enforce that you pay.

"Shareware" is a software licensing concept common for PC software, but
quite rare in the UNIX world.  Much of the best software for UNIX is
available off the network free of charge, and this is a large part of
what has made UNIX so successful.  Philosophically, I'd like to be able
to release this library as free software, but pragmatically I have to
settle for second best and release it as inexpensive software.  Much of
the free UNIX software that is available was written by programmers who
work for large companies, and who have a regular salary.  I've been
working on Xmt for well over two years, and have not been drawing a
salary during that time.  By purchasing an appropriate number of
licenses, you are supporting the work I have done on Xmt, and the work
I'll be doing in the future.  Thank you.

				-- David Flanagan
